Robust Data backup
    Are imp systems and data backed up daily to an offiste location with ability to restore multiple versions back atleast 30days 
    data backups tested ?

"Web Browser maangment and DNS filtering 
Avoid danger and filter out connections to mal. Websites , susp.domain names etc.,..
    Is mal. Web content being blocked ?
    Web browser security settings are maangeed ?

"Phisihing Prevention and Awarness
    Take steps to increase and maintain the awarness of phishing threats,
    Conducts ongong phishing and social engg campaigns , simulate phishing exersise
    offer awaness trainning to employees
    utilizze technologies to block mal.emails "
    Do we have  tabletop excersise concentrates phisihinh ? Phishing response scenarios conducted ?
    are users trained to recognie phishing emails ?
    Is emails fiiltered to protects against the phishing emails ?


Network Perimeter Monitoring (NM)
    Is perimeter network traffic monitored?
    Is internal network traffic monitored?
    Are networks segmented to protect mission critical assets?
    Has the organization established a baseline of network traffic and is it used to identify anomalous activity?

Asset Management (AM)
    Have the organization’s hardware and software assets been inventoried and is the inventory managed?
    Has the organization removed all unsupported hardware and software from its operating environment?
    Does the organization detect rogue hardware and alert key stakeholders?
    Does the organization quarantine and/or remove all rogue hardware"
    Are documented and approved secure configurations used to manage the organization’s hardware and software assets?
    Are standard baseline images used to control hardware and software configurations?
    Does the organization manage system configurations using security hardening guides?

Patch and Update Management (PM)
    Is all public-facing software patched for vulnerabilities within 15 days for vulnerabilities rated as “Critical” and 30 days for vulnerabilities rated as “High”?
    Are all internal-facing software and firewalls patched for vulnerabilities within 30 days for both vulnerabilities rated as “Critical” and for vulnerabilities rated as “High”?
    Are all software and firewalls patched for vulnerabilities within 15 days for vulnerabilities rated as “Critical” and 30 days for vulnerabilities rated as “High”?
    Are all software and firewalls patched for vulnerabilities within 3 days for vulnerabilities rated as “Critical” and 7 days for vulnerabilities rated as “High”?

User and Access Management (UM)
    Are strong and unique passwords implemented throughout the entire organization?
    Is two-factor authentication implemented for all privileged (e.g. system administrators) and remote users
    Is two-factor authentication implemented for all users?
    Is the principle of least privilege enforced through policies and procedures?
    Is least privilege enforced through technical (technology based) restrictions?
    Are audit logs maintained for all privileged (e.g. system administrator) accounts?
    Is role-based security training conducted?
    Is rogue hardware being detected?
    Are users who attempt to install rogue hardware counseled against installing rogue hardware?

Application Integrity and allow list
    Is there a list of known bad software (a “Blocklist”), and is the software on that list being blocked?
    Has the organization documented a list of known approved software (an “Allowlist”)?
    Is the Allowlist organized by software publisher, and is that list used to allow only approved software to run on organizational systems?
    Has the organization documented a list of known approved software (an Allowlist) organized by software publisher and version number, and is that list used to allow     only approved software to run on organizational systems?

Incident Resopnse
    Has the organization developed an incident response plan?
    Are cybersecurity incidents reported and escalated to the appropriate stakeholders?
    Have disaster recovery procedures been developed?
    Does the organization conduct annual incident response tabletop exercises that include ransomware response scenarios?
    Are incident response tabletop exercises performed at least twice a year?
    Is a physical incident response exercise performed at least once a year?
    Are physical incident response exercises performed at least twice a year?
    Has the organization implemented redundant systems where appropriate for the purpose of resiliency?
    Have redundant and resilient systems and data been implemented throughout the organization?
